[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
I'm going to wait for a few more minutes because I'm just going to discuss something very important,

I think, and then we'll move on to what we want to do today. Couple more minutes.

Minutes. I'll wait for a couple more minutes and then we'll start. All right.

Okay. The plan for today. As you can see, I'm just going to give a very, very brief, um, feedback on exam one.

And, uh, we'll also move the. I was planning to have the, uh, online, um, interaction of, uh, blind auction today,

but I think I'm moving it to after after spring break because there is a small topic,

very, very important one called event that I want to discuss today and also on chain and off chain data.

Uh, in chapter six before we can do the, um, interaction and so that we can see the events happening,

you know, so I want to do that and then, um, let's, let's discuss the beauty of events and,

um, smart contract programing and throughout, throughout my, uh,

first half of the semester, I've been giving hints on what are going to be the questions.

And I can tell you right now there's going to be a question on events.

For those of you who are here. We're looking at the recording. Definitely.

There's going to be a question on events. And um, we'll talk about on chain and off chain data as a topic for the lecture.

Okay. Now the feedback on the exam one have okay.

I know that each one of you think about only your exam.

You know how you performed and what is your score and how does it stand and things like that.

You can see all the statistics online, but from my point of view, this is why I wanted everyone to be here.

A lot of people are not here. I think you did fantastic.

You know, overall the class did very nice.

I think I really I'm really, really happy how you performed in the exam.

You know, I know there are some people who I didn't get, um, you know,

100 or something like that, but I think you can see that even though there's nobody got 100,

you know, 90 of the high, you can see the statistics that I am absolutely, very, very happy how you performed.

I think tonight, um, we kind of, uh, combined, uh, combined grading and I think I'm really happy,

um, how you answered it and, um, so, um, so the feedback from me is that you've done well.

Okay. You've done well. What you may say. Oh, my grade is not that great and things like that.

But the way you answered, maybe one of the question you didn't focus or study or something like that,

but overall, um, it has been fantastic, you know, so I'm not going to give the exam paper back.

But I think if you are going to look at it, you know, you have to come and look at it individually and,

and give it back to me and, um, understand that you may not get any points up.

You may, you know, I mean, may be a little bit critical and, but the points may go down or something like that.

So but anyway, you can take a look at the exam paper individually.

But I think overall, uh, I am I'm extremely happy with the overall performance of the class.

First of all, everyone took the exam. And second of all, and, uh, you know, I, I look at certain certain the way that you answer,

you know, um, you know, something that I discussed as come out or not.

And I think little things like, you know, the address was 160, but probably everyone got it.

And across the board, you know, so that's ecstatic.

And this is something when you going to, you know, um, in fact, I met a student of mine,

um, who was in this class a year ago, and he said, he's a pianist, you know?

So, um, you know, uh, I mean, I told him to say he's a pianist, you know, so he plays piano, and he said, you know,

there are some fundamentals in a piano, so you cannot just leave out those fundamentals and that those fundamentals.

I feel that you all answered, uh, beautifully.

I think I, I'm happy with, even if you criticize yourself for not getting the 190 or something like that,

I felt that the overall performance I look for subjectively, some certain answers,

and they were there, you know, I think so I am quite happy with that.

And I'm not going to repeat the questions from the first exam.

In the second exam, um, until I think you can, um, we will prepare for it as we go along for the rest of the semester for the second exam.

And only thing I would say, maybe I'm just kind of, uh, uh, talking to people who are not here the best way.

And I also understand exam is only one dimension.

We have quiz. Uh, obviously, Puru is not bad.

He missed the quiz. Quiz. And the second thing is, there's a quiz on March 31st after you come back, you know?

So, um, not right after that. You know, um, little after a week after you come back from spring break, there's a quiz.

So the quiz is very, very important. Do not miss the quiz.

Okay. Likewise. You know, we have attained attendance captured on the.

Blockchain that you cannot do anything about. I, like I said, after you come back from the spring break that we are going to have, um,

interaction on the blind auction probably will have interaction on one more and every DApp I discussed.

I think there's one more that we do interaction. Those things count.

And also I know, you know, in about ten years from now, if you ask me where Greg sat and I know where Greg.

Hey, Greg, you know, I know that Greg was sitting at the back and he came and sat in this row and things like that.

So I think very, very important. Well, number one is attendance.

So I would say the most of the good access came because of the discussions we have in the class.

And, um, even if the recording, recording doesn't make any.

You know, you know, you can look at the recording, but what happens in class,

you know, it's much more effective and it's important that you do come to class.

I think that I'm talking to people who are not here. Number two, do not miss, um, activity.

Class activity. Understand that this is absolutely a very rare opportunity for me.

This is for you too. You know, nobody is going to give a decentralized operation and say, I mean, work on it.

Let's say it's a community. Um, it's I'm taking a whole lot of risk when I'm doing that.

You know, I could just give the PowerPoint notes and go home. But when I do that, I really thoroughly, um, see how we interact.

And sometimes we don't interact. Then we know what was the fault and so on.

We repeat it. And so I think I want us to be interacting on the class activity, and I want to capture it, um, capture it, uh, on the blockchain.

And we automatically, um, you know, take it from there.

And, um, so I think nobody's counting on who's working, who's not and automatically discounted from your did.

Number three. Um, the quiz. The quiz.

Also, I think probably will have only one more quiz or two more quizzes.

Don't miss it. Again, the answers are there. You just choose something and that kind and most important.

Um, which I have not mentioned from now on. I think you may want to focus on the project.

So understand that exam is not of course, so plus the exams.

Okay. So understand that, um. Um, exams.

Exams is one of the items. So I think I don't want you to feel, um, if you have gotten a slightly lower score, don't feel bad.

I know that there are four more components that you can make up, and the most important component of this project is sitting in front of you.

And I even given you the whole range of, you know, working with somebody and so on, so you can ace it.

And so don't miss that easy, low hanging fruit of completing the project.

And that's also something that you can show off in in an interview.

You can put it in your GitHub and, you know, um, create a portfolio in your portfolio.

This could be one of the projects. And so I think it goes beyond what we do in class.

And it's very, very important that you complete the project.

So I think I want you to think about it that way. Okay.

And um, so that's, that's the feedback on the, um, exam.

And I think overall it was good. Um, only one thing I would say is that I gave a hint and for those of you who missed that question,

I gave a hint that, um, the use not use case diagram.

Um, the diagram that I'm going to ask for a question is in the appendix.

You go look at the recording. You know, I said that I know my question for the diagrams are going to come from the appendix.

Most of you got it. A couple of people didn't know what it was, the state diagram and um, and the use case diagram.

And so I think with most of you got it, but some of you completely missed it.

And that could have been a 20 pointer for you. Okay. Very very important.

And that goes back to attendance in the class. And like I said events is going to be one of the questions.

There you go 20% okay. So all right so that that said that is the feedback on exam one.

Um I like I'm I'm, I'm very happy with the overall performance in the class.

But you may not agree individually. If you had gotten, you know, um, nobody got 100.

So you may feel, oh my God, I didn't get 100. I should have gotten 100 or something like that.

No, I think you did very well. Okay. So let's, um, that is the, um.

That is a plan for, um, today. And, uh, a let's move into, um, the lecture today.

Um, what? You know, what else they want to say? Um. To go.

So, um, at this point, um, we are not thinking about the exam.

We are thinking about the project. Next big thing, right? You got it.

You got to hit the project. You got to get the project done.

Okay. You cannot look back on what you have completed now. It's going forward.

And make sure you ace the project. Okay. Um, yeah.

I was talking to a student from this class, and I asked him to put the project from this class in his portfolio.

So I think he's going to do that. So I think this is one of the portfolio projects.

And beyond the class, it'll be useful to you. And of course, it has got significant points.

You know, activities are a collection of activities. You know, whereas project is one chunk of points.

And don't don't wait till the last minute to do that, okay. And I don't want anything.

Anything. Um, what to say a non-trivial project, it has to be a significant project that you work on.

Okay. So today I'm going to talk about, um, this is chapter six.

We have moved on to, um, chapter six.

You can always come and talk to me about the exam after today's lecture.

I'm here. Okay. Um, exploring different kinds of on chain data.

Okay. We'll talk about blocks, transaction receipts and state.

Um, I think you, um, more than the grade itself.

I think you have a fantastic understanding of what the structure is.

So block we know transactions, collection of transaction.

Make the blocks. Blocks, collection of blocks. Make the blockchain very, very simple.

That's something you should be able to answer in an interview.

And then, um, receipts. Um, we'll talk about transaction receipts and state the receipts are nothing.

But when a function execute, it sends back the results to what are called receipts.

And state is something that, uh, you know, when you execute a transaction, um, the overall network state goes from one state to another.

That means even if it is just a transfer of currency, um, you know, you had eight, eight, um,

eight Etherium and somebody had ten Etherium after the transaction, two was sent to the person know, six and 12 or something like that.

That was a state change. Um, likewise.

And uh, so we'll talk about that. Where is the data going to be stored for your application and so on.

Defining and meeting and logging events.

Events are um, uh, it's these are very good data structures, very good structures that can be used in your programing.

Um, if you want to use events, um, you can do that.

Uh. Oh, yeah. I know what I wanted to talk to. I do have, uh, probably a summer project.

Okay. Unfortunately, it is for undergraduates, and it's a highly programing project and paid project, and you have to be in Buffalo for that.

And also, um, you have to have U.S. citizenship if you if you have, you know, we'll talk about it.

Um, I think, um, that's, that's based on blockchain and the kind of data analysis that we are talking about using events and so on.

Whatever I'm talking about, it's a quite, quite a nice project.

National Science Foundation project. And if you if you are in here and somewhere it's it's a paid project.

It's a very well mentored project. And uh let me know, okay.

You can talk to me and I'll let you know as we get more information about it.

Um, I'm involved in that NSF project. Okay. Designing.

And, um, one student from this class, um, did that last summer, and this is the last summer that we have that available for undergraduates.

Okay. Um, accessing event logs from transaction receipt to support DApp operations.

And while I'm not expecting you to do that in your project, this is something that you can try.

This is something that you can try. And designing and developing DApps on an on chain and um, with on chain and off chain data.

So where do you store the data? That's a big question in blockchain.

And um, if you think about CryptoKitties and other early application, they, they put everything on chain.

And if you look at this smart contract, they are really, really like today's regular programing and the heavy.

And that's how they they didn't survive. Okay.

And then demonstrating on chain and off chain data using ask and blind auction DApps okay.

So I'm going to have um airline consortium as it was one of the applications.

And then we'll also have the blind auction that includes events.

And I've already given the code with events. You don't know what they are, but now you will have the explanation for that.

Okay. In this chapter. Okay. On chain and off chain data.

That's what distinguishes blockchain application development from non blockchain application data.

So besides. So I know that um so far 30 4050 years 30 years 40 years.

The data has been stored in large silo of databases, Oracle databases.

Um you know postgres database. Still we do work with a lot of databases.

I know those applications are good. I'm not saying anything is wrong with them.

Um, it's simply that the kind of application that we work with, blockchain, um, do not have those kind of databases on the blockchain.

Very, very, very, very important databases going don't go on the blockchain.

They are off chain. They cannot. Once you put the database on the blockchain, it's going to die.

It's not going to move at all.

It's just going to be, um, you know, anything you transact, you're going to, uh, misbehave for the whole community of, um, node that are there.

They're going to say, my God, your, your smart contract, which will be sitting there and the mempool will never get executed, okay.

And maybe get deployed. So do you want to weigh the data associated with the DApp is stored.

It's off chain, mostly somewhere stored on blockchain, on chain, other other international databases and files off chain.

So it's going to be off chain. That means that, um, it's not it's a regular database.

It's going to be there. It's people ask, oh, are my applications on the database going to go away?

No, they're just going to stay where they are. But you would simply say that this, this data that's on this um, Oracle database,

relational database has a little hash on the um, it's going to have a hash on the main, um, you know, a blockchain somewhere.

You say, okay,

I'm just going to prove that this record was there by just hashing all the values and providing a 256 bit hash compared to one full table.

Okay, the full table is okay, but the hash of the table is inside of the blockchain for provenance.

So that's what is going to happen with the on chain and off chain data you should be able to manage.

So when you are going to be doing a project and off chain blockchain data,

you should keep all the heavy data outside and how only a little sliver of data called, you know, hash of those things on the on chain data.

Okay. So what is on chain data in a traditional system?

The result of function executions and applications are persisted in local filesystem.

I know that you learned, um, you learned a while ago.

You know, in database systems and you have a file system where you can store open file, read and write, and you will put it in there.

And then when you want, you pick up the data and stored the data, uh, and inside and manipulate it.

You do addition, subtraction, multiplication and complicated operations and then store it back in the, um, file system, read and write.

And that's the traditional system, a local file system or a central database.

A blockchain application stores the following on a blockchain node.

Transaction executed and confirmed.

Result of a smart contract function execution.

State changes changes in storage variable value.

So if I have int. If I have int.

Age and a transaction.

A transaction is due, um, somewhere, you know, age is age plus 40 or something like that.

A change in age is a state change, just like you.

Okay, I'm giving you a hypothetical situation here. State change that is stored in a storage.

There is a storage there inside related to the block.

Okay. This data are stored in designated data structures in the blockchain node and

propagated to other stakeholder node as specified by a blockchain protocol.

So understand that block block um is not just made of um, not just made of transactions, but it also has.

Um, of course it has transactions. It has storage data, all those in an address and other things that you have, and also receipts.

When you execute a function, something comes out and that's going to be there.

So understand all these things are connected to the blockchain.

And so the block is quite heavy and block is quite heavy in all these.

So if you think about the block as I do have a picture.

So if you think about the block. Um.

This is the block with lots of data. Um.

I mean, these are all these are all some data associated with a block.

You need some things like, you know, you need a block header.

You need the previous hash. You need what is called the blooms log.

If somebody is interested in working. It's absolutely a beautiful concept that that can be used for intelligence okay.

Besides that you also have the transactions.

You also have state variables. And you also have receipts.

Receipts are basically return. Um. Return variables.

I do have a picture. So do it. So these are also stored.

Okay. So, um, what do you think if I ask you?

So what do you think? These are pointers. These are pointers here.

Pointers here. Point is here. So if I want to store the transaction.

What could be think about this is a, um.

You don't know that I have answered that. Think about it as an interview question.

What could be a good data structure to to store the transactions?

What could be a good data structure to store the transactions?

Name. Just say something. No.

Yeah, that's a good one. We're very close. Another one? Another one which is quite popular in data structure class.

Somebody say something? It's not HashMap. Don't say.

Linked list. Linked lists are not allowed in this class. Yeah.

Not linkedlist. What is the other one? It's kind of. You're coming close.

How can we search for something quickly? If if, if if I want to search something quickly, what could be a good data structure for a search?

I want to know that that that transaction is in here.

So, uh. Yeah, absolutely.

Like you get a point. Okay. So trees hash map is a good answer.

Next. Good answer is trees. And what kind of trees?

It's a canary tree okay. And actually, Merkle treats a special tree called Merkle tree.

So its transactions are stored in a transaction to stored in a mocha tree.

And the Merkle tree's root is stored in the block.

Okay, this is I. This is what I learned very first.

Long ago. Eight years ago, I was so amazed at who thought about all these things and same way.

So these are Merkle trees, and now nobody talks about it.

You know, they say, oh my God, that's all technical. But Merkle tree, Merkle tree root is there.

The beauty is that, um, you can ask you can the way the tree is structured, you can find out why that particular transaction is there.

And also if you add a transaction, uh, you know,

you can easily construct there are lots of properties of this tree which helps in the way it is structured.

Okay. Uh, data structures and propagate. So what happens is that say this is a block, right?

This is a block. So this is a block.

Uh, it's a block. This whole thing.

This whole thing is repeats every block.

Every block carries along with it. The trees.

The whole entire vlog has. Of course storage unit is not there but understand.

So that is quite heavy. So you have to be very very, very careful when you design the functions and other parameters.

That's where events are beautiful. Events are only there in that particular block.

It is not all or not in every block of the blockchain.

So we'll talk about it on chain data is the set of information generated by transaction,

initiated by blockchain based application and the items used during blockchain materialization construction.

Most of the data stored in the block are in it there.

Okay, I have here understand traditional application data is in database.

No blockchain. It is in conventional database and file system is a file system.

This database. Blockchain based system has, um, an application.

You're going to write an application, you're going to write a contract. On a more contract you're going to use both.

Um, a you have a contract, another contract.

And, uh, that DApp has a data, it uses the database and file system outside the application, whereas the smart contract,

the function call that comes from there invokes the smart contract,

and that has transactions date, smart contract transaction event logs on the blockchain.

These so quiz question. What are the on chain data?

The transaction state smart contract transaction does the same thing.

And event logs are all on chain data.

Okay. These are what are on chain data. These are on chain data.

But if there's anything that is on files and database they're off chain.

You know the huge files and huge database they're off chain. And these are the ones on the blockchain.

And I have a lot of right associated with it. I want you to look at it okay.

And this is not very clear. But I want you to let me just try to make it bigger.

Okay. I have lots of pictures, I. Okay.

This is an important picture. So.

Attributes of the current block per block structure per block.

Block header with chain link, hash logs, bloom and other information.

Okay. It has a state tree composed state of all account storage data.

Okay. So it's a state tree. Uh, that is the state tree in the middle.

It also that it has a hash of it in the block.

Receipt tree success status and gas status and event logs that also goes in there.

Hashed. Transaction tree, set of transaction details of transaction that is also hashed.

And it goes there and every one of them form a part of the block.

Block header is a very complicated structure.

You must understand okay.

Transaction tree all the transactions in the block hashed and it hashes their receipt tree, hashes their state tree which is a storage.

And um. Stored on local storage of the blockchain node.

Okay. I'm going to ask a quick question. There is a storage.

There is this storage associated with the block okay.

There's a storage associated with the block where you can find the things.

You can search for things. So what could be the structure of this storage.

What kind of structure is that storage.

That is the storage. And of course being done with hash table.

You know, done with the hash map. You've done with trees. So I have here a storage and that is used for storing the data.

And you can you can look for it um it.

Uh, it is searchable. It's searchable. That storage.

Often you want to see that there. Um, it has some data on not okay.

So if it is searchable, what kind of, uh, uh, structure would it be?

I want a good answer. Um, it could be a higher level system than a simple tree or a hash map.

Something that you learned in data intensive computing. You know, some kind of a storage, if you.

What will you associate with the storage that is searchable?

A searchable storage. Searchable storage.

What could it be? Give me an answer. Just. Anything comes to your mind such.

If you want to be able to search the storage for. Okay.

Did I have an answer for this function? Something like that.

Or some searchable storage. So what kind of storage would be?

They thought about, I don't know how how, um, Satoshi and that group of three people, including Satoshi, thought about Satoshi had, and I like.

I don't know how I'm saying it. Right. What could it be? Just give me an answer, Jessica.

Right. Yeah. Tell me. You must know. So what could it be from your other classes?

That you've done something in the other classes? What could it be? What's Google famous for?

What kind of storage? Distributor saves go lower.

If it is searchable. If you want to search something. What would you like?

Like to have. What kind of storage would you like to have? Okay.

Think about it as a, um. I am not exempt.

Maybe I'll give it as a quiz question or interview question. So what kind of storage?

Eel's very easily to such.

What are you searching for? What is the what to search term called? What's the name of the search?

Down. What's. What's it called in technical literature?

Okay, so I'll tell you the answer, but don't forget it forever.

If you had a key value store.

Okay. Have you heard of key value store instead of your relational databases?

Key value store. Okay, Google introduced this.

Or maybe it has been there. Key value store.

That means you're searching that storage by key.

You know, is that these. You know, I'm asking this.

Did there you know, that's the kind of research I'm doing in the summer.

So looking for such searching for certain states, certain certain item and key value store and a key value.

Yep. Go ahead. Okay.

Um, can you see hash HashMap is usually that is inside inside in your program.

Okay. I'm talking about this. This outside your, uh, local memory area in a huge.

That's a different. That's all. Okay. Yeah, mechanism is totally different because a HashMap is simply a local data structure.

That's it. Okay. Whereas key value store you are looking at um.

Terabytes. Terabytes can be installed that cannot be inside in a hash map.

Okay. So good. Good question. It is like a hash map.

But I would take an example of key value store very very early in um.

In of course, introduced by Google is a Hadoop system, you know, but many systems that came about a hash are all now, you know, key value store.

That means basically, um, it's so easy to, um, locate.

And when you do a search, it's a key. Key tongue. And it goes and picks up from a huge terabyte value.

Um, you know, the value of that. So, um, so it's a key value store.

Okay. So key value store key could be, um, your name and value could be your grid.

Okay. Um, um, the storage, the storage here, the storage that is that they're talking about is a key value store.

So again, I want to say that this is this is outside.

This is not inside your main memory, okay?

It's it's there in the block memory. But it's it's so.

Key value store, as opposed to relational database as opposed to relational database.

So that is where we are competitors in this. Okay.

HashMap comes inside HashMap versus Linkedlist.

HashMap is a local storage. But I'm talking about outside storage hash.

So key value store as opposed to relational storage.

Okay so good question. Okay. That's outside.

Okay. So on chain data and on chain data blockchain headers six stores the attributes of the block.

Transaction six B stores the transactions recorded on the blockchain that all into a

local tree recipe execution result function transactions are recorded in the block.

Every transaction has a receipt. Got uh 1 to 1 relationship.

And a composed global state stores all of the data values of the current state

of the smart contract account and other regular account in the blockchain,

and it is updated when the transaction that use them are confirmed.

So you have here this is the state storage.

Does the transaction. You know that these transactions are the one that make up that block.

This is the global state. I'm putting a globe there.

Global state. This is a key value store.

And then you have a receipt. The receipt corresponds to for every transaction.

There is that 1 to 1 relation to purity. So what I want you to take home from this is that it's so complex.

But then they thought about all of these things, you know, and made it work.

And it's still working. That's the beauty of this. And if you look at the regular systems, you know, this is a complicated system.

And and as computer scientists and computer engineers and people who maybe may not be working inside, you know what?

You know, I want you to keep that in mind. Okay. So it is a strong.

Somebody asked me again. I had an interview. I don't know who it is.

You know, some some somebody from some newspaper asked me.

Uh, somebody says it's a Ponzi scheme. Blockchain.

I say, I explained to him it's got strong, heavy roots in the fundamental algorithm and data structures of 40 to 50 years.

50, you know, and so it is not going away.

It is very well structured. It's got strong roots. It's going to go very big tree.

Okay. So um, and so I think that's what is important to understand as a,

as an undergraduate student and as a first year graduate student is something I want you to understand.

This is not just simply coined and said, that is it is that I think I have a picture.

Um, English dictionary says it's on chain on with the dash.

But I think but blockchain technology stays. It's on to my book.

I use only on chain, but I think slowly I converted myself to without the hyphen recently.

Okay, and here is a picture. I don't think this picture is there in my book.

Um, the latter pictures I have not depicted.

I draw pictures and you can see. Um.

This is the same thing. The same thing that I have here, but a little bit more explanation.

So the lesson is that whenever you have ideas, whenever you have thought process, I want you to draw a picture.

You know, that will kind of clarify things. You know. So here it is.

Block header. Okay. Understand?

It's a very complicated structure. And you have a block.

Previous block hash 256 bits. The whole block of complex thing 5256 bits.

And timestamp. Timestamp is when the block was confirmed when the block was confirmed.

So if the block was confirmed at 542 that I see there.

If I look at this, this is the problem. You may consider it a problem.

Every transaction has the same timestamp.

Look at that. Right. Very, very important. So if I ask you in the quiz, what is the, um, transaction?

What is the transaction? Uh, what is it?

What time is it? Transaction time. I'm not saying.

Right. What is it? Transaction confirmation time.

It's the same as a block confirmation time. So if it had 1000 transactions.

All the 1000 transactions get stamped with five 542.

You must understand that. So even if it came last night and it is waiting in the mempool for a long time,

finally got picked up by the miner who won the lottery puzzle, and then it got confirmed in the block.

When the block confirmation time comes that 543 or 542 didid the transaction confirmation time for all the transactions in the block.

That's something you must understand. It is not the time that it was created.

It is not the time that it was actually came to you.

But it is when the block was confirmed on the blockchain.

Understand that. So that's very important to understand.

And they were in one of the talk.

There were a lot of argument about it by the, you know, experts in computer science, you know, with the timing and everything.

But this is understood by the protocol. And then difficulty.

Okay. Who asked me about difficulty? Okay.

Difficulty is, um. Again, I'm.

Difficulty is, um, a number that, um, kind of dictates or at least, um, specifies how easy or difficult to solve that puzzle.

That puzzle to defy the miners. Okay, I'm going to explain this.

Uh, I'll try to explain this. So, um, the puzzle is, let's say we have four bits.

I cannot draw 256 bits. Let's say we have a world of four bits.

Okay. And I say difficulty is two.

That means you have to find the hash that has two leading zeros.

You have to take all the transaction and find a hash that with two leading zeros.

How easy it is to find. It forbids.

Very easy, right? So what are the what are the numbers? 0000000100100011.

Right. So it's so easy to find, um, solve the puzzle with the hash of so many, but if it is a 256 bits, the puzzle is 256 bits.

128 bits. Leading zeros. So if I tell you one, two, you can take it out now with the block.

What was the difficulty? 128 bits leading zeros.

It takes a lot of time to find a hash that has got 128 bits.

So if, um, if the traffic is very, very, very high, what they do is that they increase the difficulty.

You know what happened in the stadium recently? They reduce the difficulty.

That means traffic is low, so they reduce the difficulty.

So they said they're going to have miners have their way to have that solve the puzzle more easily because the traffic is gone down.

So the protocol reduces the difficulty of solving the it is difficulty of solving that puzzle for miners.

Okay. Miners means computer programs, that's all. Not people, you know.

Not not the four of it, too. So what they do is that they take all these transactions around the mempool hash it.

Do I have 128 bits or 130. Which 132 bits?

Zero. No, I lost the puzzle. Then take another set of.

They keep on trying it. That's what that is. And prove a proof of work.

Right? That's a proof of work. I'm not talking about either one. So in proof of work, they keep trying it, keep trying it, they keep trying it.

And, uh, and the hash is, um, you know, 128 bits leading zeros that I won the I won the lottery, I'm going to do the block.

And then they connected. So even though you don't understand it, understand the difficulty means look at this beauty of this problem.

You know, somebody said, ah, Satoshi. He said, um, I'm going to it's adjustable puzzle, you know, for people, proof of work people.

It's an adjustable puzzle. Okay.

And that number is this that, like, won 28 bids and won 32 bids, depending on what the traffic and the protocol addresses.

And the gas used. Okay. So the the reason why we have gas used is that, um, gas fees, um, each transaction has a gas fee.

There's a transaction fee. Gas fee in the execution of them.

Transaction. There's a there's a there's a certain amount of transaction fee associated with it.

If you have a transaction deployment I mean, smart contract deployment does a transaction.

And your smart contract is this big, huh?

It's going to have a lot of, um, transaction fee.

And so you your your transaction combine, there will be lot of, um, transaction fees and the gas limit.

I think your wallet will tell you there's a limit that you can set so that, you know, you don't exceed that limit because it may go crazy.

Sometimes they can do it.

And the beneficiary, um, who who is the person who, um, who who owns the, uh, block and then block number who confirm the block block number.

You know, you can see that block number you can on your block block hash.

This is previous block hash. This is the current block hash and logs.

We talk about extra extra data and other logs. Blum is ism.

So if you're interested um this is an absolutely.

You can look it up and read about it. You know, I'm hoping that the my, my summer project will be on logs bloom and also on the kind of thing that,

um, that attendance program that we do logs bloom is something um.

That is one bit representation for the data in the block.

Okay. One bit.

So if you, if you have, um, if you have some data corresponding to the presence of that data, there is one bit and other bits are all zeros.

And so I think you can literally by looking at the logs bloom, you can you can determine the presence of something.

You cannot prove the absence. But you can do the presence of something.

And this is very, very important for many analytic problems.

I think I'm not going to go into the details, but it's uh, if you ask anybody, any theoretician and also for people,

oh my God, how did they ever think about this large volume in the blockchain?

So it's like a bit vector of, uh, what is there in the block?

Okay. And so if you are interested, there are lots of you can look it up.

Of course you have all these area support. You can, um, look up, uh, logs bloom, um, as a, uh, as a project, you know, working with logs view.

And I did meet somebody who is, um, again, I don't want to go into detail because, uh, from Israel, who is working on logs bloom.

I have the paper. But anyway, logs bloom is, um, is a very complicated structure.

I'm not going to ask you questions on it, I promise.

And, uh, it is, um, it's there in the header of, uh, the block.

Um, so you don't have to go on and housing all these data, all these, all these information.

Um, on the statement, you can simply look at the logs bloom and confirm the presence of certain data, not the absence.

Okay. So again, look up the definition. I can give you the definition of logs bloom.

It can confirm the presence of some data but you cannot prove the absence of that data.

And so I think there are all the others. And so here we have um transaction is a hash transaction transaction transaction.

And and the receipt tree. Um the structure of the transaction tree and the receipt tree of the same.

Because when you execute a transaction, there are some results that are stored here.

If you execute this transaction, the results are here.

Uh, execute this it is here. And you can get the receipt programmatically.

You can obtain the receipts. Um. I don't know whether we have an application in your project to do that.

It's not very difficult to get. Um, you know, if you have certain functions, you can get that information and use it.

It's like getting the return value from a function. Okay. And State Route three has all the state information about a state.

It's a variable. It's a variable length. It's not corresponding to these two all the state variables associated.

We said that um, a transaction there's a global state.

GT blockchain represents a global state. Okay.

There are. So many. Um.

I don't know why. Why? I put a binary tree. It could be an eerie tree.

Okay. And a transaction converts a global.

State to the next state. So something in the global tree changes there.

It's a balance of an address. Balance of somebody or it is um,

it could be a state variable U in um ex that got changed during the execution of one of the transactions and then asked,

so all these, all these things understand that this is um, I think I have it somewhere.

This is per block transaction tree is a per block.

There's one per block, okay. Every block has its own transaction.

Every block has its own receipt. But the state tree is per block chain.

That means if you make this big.

If you have too many variables, it's going to. This is stored in a local store.

This is the key value store. You can find out what exactly happened in the history of the blockchain.

All these details are here and you don't want to make it really big.

Otherwise, you know it's just traveling along.

This is pure blockchain. I think I do mention that somewhere.

Okay. And this picture is very, very important. What I want to appreciate is that we are just coming ten years, 2008.

Maybe they were working in the room and half in is dead. That why they is keeping quiet?

We don't even know who Satoshi is. And they were working probably for three, two, three years, 2000 maybe, and maybe ten years, 20 years and 20 years.

We are just just trying to appreciate the complexity and the beauty of this.

But as they thought about it and made this work, and that's what I want you to appreciate with the blockchain.

And I have not I have not given many of the parameters here.

I've given only a few of the parameters. So what what you should understand is that it's not blockchain a block.

It's got a lot of information and most of them are 256 but that's all right.

Get transaction. It has to contain the transaction. And there were lots of lots of issues with the number of transaction per block.

I won't go into that. You know they whether it should be two K or SegWit and things like that.

I won't go into the details of that. I have lived through those things.

You know governance and governance, voting and things like that, whether to make it big or not because the transaction fee comes to the beneficiary.

Okay. So if you have thousand transactions, each one of them gave one eat, you know, those.

And those that need comes back to the um, I mean, I'm just kind of giving you a inflated value.

Comes to the beneficiary receipt correspondent run these two or these two are different per block.

It's different if you have 1000 transaction thousand nodes.

If you have 2000 transactions, potentially thousand.

Every transaction creates a receipt. And that's what is here.

But a state tree represents the global state.

So it is kind of arbitrary that sitting there per blockchain and all that, all the details out there.

And the bloom log has details about what's in there, in the sense that it's not having a lot of information.

You can find out why there's certain things out there. Again, look at the complexity of it.

You know, even when I read through it and I explain to you,

you're looking at it for the first time, it's amazing how they thought about it and make it work.

Okay. And so let's look at blind auction with events.

Okay. So at this point, um, I do have I'll try to see what I can get.

I the way I understood all these things is I sat down and.

Just put pictures of the pictures of the pictures. And what happened is that most of them were edited out of the book.

Um, those guys didn't know the importance of it. So if I have more pictures, I'll get it for you.

Okay, here it is. I don't think even that picture is there. Okay.

Blind auction with events. So at this point you saw that this is this is a heavy table, right?

This goes with pure blockchain. It keeps traveling with it.

Is there any way we can keep something here per block.

Event. Event log. Can we say. Can we keep something called event log or only per block?

That means events that happen here. And you can find out whether that event happened.

And the next block has its own events. Events. Events are like interrupts.

Events are like announcements that are thrown, events are thrown, and they're captured and stored in the block.

And then they don't travel with the blockchain.

That means it's per block. It's not heavy until you can find out whether they are there or not.

But it is a very, um, simple data structure that can be high, highly useful for certain things.

So you want to know if there's an every time and every time.

A transfer of more than 1000. It happens through an event.

Okay. So you can find out from the blockchain how many times?

1000. More than 1000 um, transfers happen.

Where did they happen? Which block? All those things can be found out.

Anyway, I'm just giving you some lame, lame example, but you can think about others.

What are events? How do you define them? How do you invoke them?

Where are they stored? How do you access the emitted events?

How do you utilize the emitted events in notification for further analytics and computing for further analytics computation announcement.

In fact, um, in one of the projects, um, a couple of years ago, they have to capture the event and use it.

I mean, even now you can do it, use it in your application level.

That's the way it is used. Okay. Think about this as the final exam question.

Okay. So, uh, I usually have multiple, um, parts, and I, I'm sure going to have a question on events and on that.

That's what they indicate. Um, blockchain header transaction receives a status from a majority of the on chain data.

Data plays a significant role in ensuring robustness and security of the blockchain, and also provides proof of existence of transactions and events.

Okay. You can access the information stored in the blockchain to support, um, the operations of the application level.

So, um. The kinds of on chain data are strictly controlled by the blockchain protocol,

with actual data values being determined by the transaction originating from the applications.

You must be aware that this limitation. I'm aware of this limitation.

Um, when designing your blockchain based system, understand that it's heavy, heavy, heavy data.

If you give 10,000 parameters, uh, it'll accept it, but it's not going to be it's going to be heavy.

It's going to sit there. It's not going to be deployed. To illustrate this concept, we'll explore an improved version of the blind auction.

That's the reason why I didn't want to I did have the events. I didn't explain the event.

So let's understand events okay. So that's what we'll do today.

Let's begin by considering what an event is, how to define an event.

How to emit an event. How to use event logs in transaction receipt to provide notification to the user via the UI.

Okay. So I think I'm going to I'm going to do this okay.

I don't know whether my my application has what are events.

They're nothing but notification that can be emitted from the functions to indicate

the presence of a condition or a flag during the smart contract function execution.

So sometimes you know when you when you say, um, sale is completed, that could be one or it could be,

um, you know, um, not enough money in the bank or something like that.

So you wanted to show some exceptional condition, exceptional or some condition to be thrown so that somebody can capture.

It's like throwing a flag and somebody capturing it. Okay.

Like done. We are done. And the while loop gets old.

You know, that's a common one in your, um, application.

Solidity provides features to define and emit an event with or without parameters.

Events are logged on chain in the receipt tree and can be accessed by their names.

How cool is that? You know, you can simply say, can you find that event for me that it happened?

Of course, events represent application specific events and situation that may need participants attention or actions.

It could be them. When you're in phase one.

In it is drawn. When you are in phase two, what is voting is ready.

You can all go vote. That event is thrown everywhere. It's displayed, captured and displayed or something like that.

People can vote like that and voting is done. It's going to be done or something.

You may need the participant attention or actions.

How to define an event. Very very important.

So I'll ask you a few questions and then I want you to be able to I'm hoping that the reason why I'm kind of pushing this,

um, is in chapter six is that I'm hoping that you will use that in your project somewhere.

You know, you are doing some transactions in your marketplace.

Is there any way that you can define at least one event?

And then throw that even when the situation changes so that people know, oh, that's done okay.

Um, even the name of the event parameters, um, event names in solidity can begin with an uppercase letter and then, uh, use CamelCase.

There can be three parameter at most.

Okay. I know why the three parameters are, um, you know, we'll talk about that later.

Limitation is said by solidity. Avoid overloading the chain to enable efficient management of event logs.

Here is an example of an event definition blind option that we have been talking about.

Auction ender when? When the auction and the auction is ended.

Yeah. When? When the auction is ended. Um, you want to say who's the winner?

Without you asking who and what is the highest bidder?

How cool is that? If you display like that time, this is the highest bidder.

This is. So you imagine if an auction has ended. This is the highest bidder.

This is so automatically.

And the application that you write, the web application that you write could capture the event and displayed on the if you looked at,

um, if you were there last class when I auction ended, I think those are the things I want to repeat again.

Okay. Um, I think nobody participated, but that's all right.

Because of the phases. I had my laptop here, Zaki had his laptop, and then Zakir was the only one who bid, unfortunately.

But we will do it again with, uh, with a little bit more knowledge, and hopefully everybody will be there and that will be counted towards your grade.

And at the end when I press the auction and, uh, event was thrown and that event had two parameters,

who was the highest bidder and what was the highest bidder.

And you could see a banner appearing in the application that says that, um, you know, um.

Um, that was .1.41 or something like that to the winner.

And so that is an absolute good use of the event.

So you when you want to announce something, when you want to say this is a unit face,

this is the done face, you can announce with a red banner if you want or when the auction is ended.

This is what it is. So I think I'm going to probably I think the code is like Puru pointed out here, kind of.

I think he's not here today. Um, uh, when he went into the GitHub, I gave you the GitHub.

It's there, the code is there, you can see, and I don't mind you using don't don't use the auction framework.

You're doing a marketplace. Don't use the exact same thing somebody came and said can blind auction be my project.

No, it cannot be. You'll get zero, you know, so you can make use of the code there for events.

And, um, you can write beautiful code for your marketplace.

Okay. So all the items in my inventory are sold or something like that, you know, so auction ended address, be nice bid.

And then you can also have even bidding started.

So you can put a banner. It's a bidding started. Remember that came about that we captured the event and displayed it and then revealed started.

We captured the event and displayed it. And so those code are available to you and I'll make sure that the code is put in the code section.

And you can see where do you find an event in an sec.

You can define in any event anywhere in the smart contract.

Of course, I have a rule, right?

Still, it's a good idea to set aside a standard location to define the events in your design and coding so that they can be easily identified.

During the development of the code. You can define events in a smart contract right after the types in variable um, and then emit.

How do you emit the events? You simply say emit bidding started, emit re been started.

Okay. And I do have. So you can see these are the data.

So when I ask for the um so this is the data structure address bed mapping mapping mapping is HashMap HashMap.

It's a hash map is a key value store inside key value store.

Outside is what I was talking about. Address highest bidder highest bid.

And then we have three events and modifiers.

And then we have all the function. This is I'm going to ask you about contract diagram okay.

And then I have here. So I'm going to I'm going to stop here.

I think if you look at the remix you have um let me just go into I think I've done.

Do I have the online auction. Yes I do now you can see I have here the events.

There's so many events there. One, two, three, four, five, six. Events and events are thrown.

Emit, emit, emit and the that when the, uh, when the face changes and also when auction ends.

Uh, place bid withdraw when auction ends.

Uh, I didn't throw the bid.

Okay. Um, okay, I didn't I didn't throw any anything.

Here, let me see. Auction end is there. Okay.

Auction ended. Event is there. Why wasn't it thrown?

Okay, I could throw the event and then capture the event and also, uh.

Okay. Um. That's interesting. I have to take it out. Okay, so, um, you can throw the auction event ended and you can capture it and then display it.

And also it's also possible you could get the value, uh, proactively from the receipt of the function.

And so there are two ways of doing it. Events are um, you know I'm going to stop with the event.

So next not next class.

When you come back from the spring break, we'll do, um, uh, uh, interaction with the blockchain, um, not blockchain blind auction.

And that time it's a front end, just like we had.

And you can also bid very little amount.

You know, I'm going to put a limit of smaller amount so you don't lose nine and ten suppliers know that it could be 0.0102 like that.

And then we'll see how we do about rates okay. So I'm going to stop there.

And if you have any questions about your performance um please do come and see me.

Um I don't want people with 90 and 80s and things like that.

Um, you know, asking for more points. I think we have been very fair.

And any questions you have, um, you can come and talk to me.

I'm here. Okay. If anybody in any open question.

So I'm just going to shut.
